DOC-3817: Key concepts - node (#556)
corda/corda-docs-portal: content/en/platform/corda/4.8/open-source/key-concepts-node.md

## Summary

> * A node is JVM run-time with a unique network identity running the Corda software.

Reviewer: Yes - and introduce that we usually refer to people and businesses as 'parties and counterparts'.

* The node has two interfaces with the outside world:
  * A network layer, for interacting with other nodes

>   * RPC, for interacting with the node’s owner

Reviewer: @AaronForinton - it looks like this suggestion wasn't committed?

* The node’s functionality is extended by installing CorDapps in the plugin registry.

## Video

{{% vimeo 214168860 %}}

## Node architecture

> A Corda node is a JVM runtime environment with a unique network identity. A node hosts Corda services and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Corda node is a JVM runtime environment with a unique network identity. A node hosts Corda services and
```
I'd add a brief explanation here of what a JVM runtime environment is. I'd also link to the ID header in the network doc.

CorDapps. Here is a visualization of the node’s internal architecture:

{{< figure alt="node architecture" width=80% zoom="/en/images/node-architecture.png" >}}

The core elements of the architecture are:

* A persistence layer for storing data.
* A network interface for communication between nodes.
* An RPC interface for interacting with the node’s owner.

> * The service hub allows the node’s flows to call upon the node’s other services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The service hub lets the node’s flows call services in the node.
```
This can be simplified

> ## Summary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* Nodes represent individuals and businesses on a Corda network.

> * A node runs within a [Java Virtual Machine (JVM)](https://www.infoworld.com/article/3272244/what-is-the-jvm-introducing-the-java-virtual-machine.html) and has a unique network identity running the Corda software.

Reviewer: This doesn't quite make sense. A node must have a unique identity, which corresponds to a legal identity. This is an identity, it's not what 'runs the Corda software.' Can you look at this again and split those two concepts out a bit?

## The service hub

Internally, the node has access to a rich set of services that are used during flow execution to coordinate ledger
updates. The key services are:

* Information about other nodes on the network and the services they offer.

> * Access to the contents of the [vault](../../../../../en/platform/corda/4.8/open-source/key-concepts-vault.md) and the storage service.

Reviewer: What is 'The storage service'?

Author: It's described above - the second part of the persistence layer where 'it stores transactions, attachments, and flow checkpoints'.

Internally, the node has access to a rich set of services that are used during flow execution to coordinate ledger
updates. The key services provided are:

> * Information on other nodes on the network and the services they offer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Information about other nodes on the network and the services they offer.
```

Reviewer: was this change committed? Looks like it was resolved and not applied?

> * Access to the contents of the vault and the storage service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Access to the contents of the vault and the storage service.
```
I'd link to the vault page here (from "vault")

> * Access to, and generation of, the node’s public-private key pairs.

Reviewer 2: I'd split this into two bullets

* Information about the node itself.
* The current time, as tracked by the node.

## The CorDapp provider

> The CorDapp provider is where new CorDapps are installed to extend the behavior of the node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The CorDapp provider is where new CorDapps are installed to extend the behavior of the node.
```
This could be improved with an active voice rewrite

> Several CorDapps are installed on the node by default to handle common tasks such as:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your node comes with several default CorDapps installed, which handle common tasks such as:
```
Suggest refocusing on the user here

* Retrieving transactions and attachments from counterparties.
* Upgrading contracts.
* Broadcasting agreed ledger updates for recording by counterparties.

> ## Draining mode

Reviewer 2: This section needs to be refocused on core concepts. In this case, we need some more info. The header for this section should probably be something like "shutting down a node". We probably also need some info on spinning up a node. 

1) _Why_ drain a node? (to shut it down) Use cases?
2) What's a checkpoint/what does "in-flight" mean?
3) Who's a node owner? Who's a node operator? What's the difference, and what can each do?
4) What's the shell?

* Access to the node’s public-private key pairs.
* Generation of new public-private key pairs.
* Information about the node itself.
* The current time, as tracked by the node.

## The CorDapp provider

New CorDapps are installed using the CorDapp provider and are used to extend the behavior of the node.

Your node comes with several default CorDapps installed, which handle common tasks such as:

* Retrieving transactions and attachments from counterparties.
* Upgrading contracts.
* Broadcasting agreed ledger updates for recording by counterparties.

## Draining mode

It is often necessary to spin down nodes. Planned maintenance is a common administrative task and nodes can be drained and decommissioned for a number of reasons, including for the investigation
of performance and latency issues, maintenance, and necessary upgrading work.. Nodes can be decommissioned from the network, but in order to shut down a node cleanly, it is important that no node processes (or ['flows'](../../../../../en/platform/corda/4.8/open-source/key-concepts-flows.md)) are active,

> meaning no [checkpoints](../../../../../en/platform/corda/4.8/open-source/contributing-flow-internals.html#checkpoints) are persisted.

Reviewer 3: I could be really wrong on all this as I haven't read about checkpoints in a while...

> Checkpoints freeze a flow and capture its current status, and they are automatically saved to the database when a flow suspends or resumes. A flow can be replayed from the last checkpoint if the node restarts, with this automatic checkpointing
> ensuring durability against crashes and restarts. It is important that all of this in-progress data is cleared in anticipation of shutting down a node. The draining mode ensures that before shutting down:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Checkpoints ensure durability against crashes and restarts by freezing a flow and capturing its current status, which is automatically saved to the database. When the node is restarted, it replays the flow from the last checkpoint. 

The draining mode ensures that before shutting down:
```

I think this is misleading: It is important that all of this in-progress data is cleared in anticipation of shutting down a node. It implies that checkpoints are cleared...

* Commands requiring any new, RPC-initiated flows are rejected.
* Initial P2P session messages are not processed, meaning peers are not able to initiate new flows involving the node.
* All other activities proceed as usual, ensuring that the number of in-progress flows only goes down, not up.

> Once the number of activities reaches zero, it is safe to shut the node down.

Reviewer 3: Is this clearer?

```suggestion
Once the number of active flows reaches zero, it is safe to shut the node down.
```
